In the reading material, the author cites three reasons to support her viewpoint that genetic modification prove benefits. Nevertheless, the lecturer in the listening material argues that increase genetic modification trees scale has much problems.

First and foremost, the author argues that because modificative trees do not have the ability that modificative tree is harder than wild tree. however, the lecturer offers an opposite stand that modificative tree deficient the ability that diverse its gene to protect itself from multiple disaster.

In addition, the lecturer casts doubt on the author's another reason that genetic modification can improve trees' productivity, and the farmer's earn more money. demonstrating that the modificative seeds are more expensive than normal tree's seeds, and the modification trees do not have the ability of generate growly offspring. 

Finally, the author's third reason that because modificative trees grow faster and higher, that can avoid wild three cut by human overcontrol. This opinion counteracted by the lecturer who points out that because modificative trees grow faster and higher, that mean wild's trees could be taken place and sunshine from modificative trees. 

* 改：

1.)

First and foremost, the author argues that because modificative trees do not have the ability modificative trees are harder than wild trees. however, the lecturer offers an opposite stand that modificative trees are deficient in the ability to diversify its gene to protect themselves from multiple disasters.
