02
体育运动
1.)
The first benefit bring by sport is that people's mind got relex when doing sport. mind relaxing is needed by people on this high level competetion. sport sport make our attention transfrom work to breath or muscle excesice, so let us relex. In other side, reading and whatching TV is got reverse effect , because our mind is runing, expecially we are watching high intencive moive or noive. There is an example from me, every time I run wild one hour, and don't think about work between this time, that make me blow up all exhoustion.

修改：
The first benefit brought by sport is that people's minds relax when doing sport. Mind relaxation is needed by people at this high level of competition. Sports make our attention transform work to breath or muscular exercise, so let us relax. In the other hand, reading and watching TV has the reverse effect, because our mind is running, expecially we are watching high intensive movies or novels. There is an example from me, every time I run wild for one hour, and don't think about work between this time, that makes me blow up all exhaustion.

2.)
second, sport promote humans body quality, this will increase people resistance. A men maybe feel tired before exercise, but his cardiovascular system got strengthen, blood circum systeam become more effectioncy. But watching moive and reading book make poeple inactivity, then evolve into serious disease. for exemple, my uncle is a softwall designer, his work is write code sit beside computer a whole year. He don't like sport, relaxing way is only eating sneake and watching films. in the end, fat and hypertension catch him.

修改：
Second, sport promotes human body quality, this will increase people resistance. A man may feel tired before exercise, but his cardiovascular system strengthens, blood circum system becomes more effective. But watching movies and reading books make people intense, then evolve into fatal disease. For example, my uncle is a software architect, his work is to write code sitting beside a computer for a whole year. He doesn't like exercise, the relaxing way is only eating sneakers and watching films. In the end, fat and hypertension catch him.