On my first point, strict rules impair children's creative and imagenative ability.
On my first point, strict rules impair children's creative and *imaginative* ability.
 
Creative and the power of break out rule espatially important.
Creative and the power of break out rule *especially* important.
 
Unfoutunataly, many parents use severe rules to limit children's movement and thought in a narrow space.
*Unfortunately*, many parents use severe rules to limit children's movement and thought in a narrow space.
 
They order their kids that what should do or what should not do and they despoil the kids mind's freedom.
They order their kids that what should do or what should not do *, and* they despoil the kids mind's freedom. 并列结构过长时可用逗号隔开
 
An appropriate example is that the leader company usually born in liberal country, like Unite State, rather than the country that dominate by the strict education.
An appropriate example is that the leader company usually born in liberal country, *like the United States*, rather than the country that dominate by the strict education.
 
 
On my first point, strict rules impair children's creative and imaginative ability.Creative and the power of break(breaking) out rule(rules) (are) especially important.They order their kids that(-) what (they) should do or what should not do, and they despoil the kids mind's freedom.An appropriate example is that the leader company (is) usually born in liberal country, like the United States, rather than the country that dominate(s) by the(-) strict education.
On my first point, strict rules impair children's creative and imaginative ability.Creative and the power of breaking out rules are especially important.They order their kids what they should do or what they should not do, and they despoil the kids mind's freedom.An appropriate example is that the leader company is usually born in liberal country, like the United States, rather than the country that dominates strict education.