hi, i really hope you can help me.

that's why I'm here, what can I do for you?

i suppotsed to do review for me cytioli course, but having a hard time to finding article.

`I'm supposed to do a literature review for my psychology course`

i don't even know where to star looking.

you say it's for you psychology course, right?so you forcus on...

 dream?

`dream interpretation`

well, you have folks, that's already a good start.

emm , there few thing, oh wait...

have you checkout you professor put to look at or reserve?

`Have you checked to see if your professor put any materials for you to look at on reserve?`

en, that one thong i did know to do.

i just copy that article but i still need three different topic from 3 different journal.

let's going for looking these thing.

we have 12 psychology journalism from different topic. these are republican last year.

`we have prited versions of 20 or so psychology journals in the reference section`

now that i think about, there is journal name sleep and dream.

the article i just copy from the journal, i have got looking other sources.

ok, actually most meterior avaliable elctronic know.

`OK. Actually, most of our material's available electronically now.`

you can access database and electronical journalism by computer.

and if you want search by tile with the word dream or sth, just type the 'dream' and all the article with ''dream" in the title come up on screen.

cool that great, to batter that i can do in the home.

your can ,all library resource can be access through any computer connected to the universe network.

really? i can't belive i don't know that.