First, it is smart to buy the digital device when is program bug repaired. because when a tecnological(technological) device appear on the market, some part of this thing have usually flaw. As time flows, more and more users report the problems to manufacturer, next version's devices is must better than the original version. Like Iphone 4, this product have(has) nagetive(negative) response because it antenna design is less than expect. Through optimize, the mobie(mobile) phone function become stable, and win the positive repute.
 
gramma: 
First, it is smart to buy the digital device when is program bug repaired. Because when a technological device appear on the market, some part of this thing usually got flaw. As time flows, more and more users report the problems to manufacturer, next version's devices is must better than the original version. Like iPhone 4, this product has negative response because its antenna design is less than expect. Through optimize, the mobile phone function become stable, and win the positive repute.
 
microft:三单错误
Firstly, it is smart(wise) to buy the digital device when the program bug is repaired. Because when a technological device appears on the market, some parts of this usually have a flaw. As time flows, more and more users report the problems to manufacturers, the next version's devices must be better than the original version. Like iPhone 4, this product has a negative response because its antenna design is less than expected. Through optimizing, the cell phone function becomes robust, and wins a positive reputation.
 
第二段
Secondly, a new listed technic device always have high price, that is meaning that the device gots the low price-ability ration(ratio) on early time. 
Secondly, the price of a newly launched technological device often comes with bubbles. which means the quality-price ratio is not satisfactory at the very beginning.

By the(供求关系), when the popular products appear on market, the commodities are less than part of requair, and that will cause price unreally.
Accoding to the law of supply and demand, when a popular device is firstly brought to the market, the supply fall short of demand, which will result in a higher price than its real value,

 But after a few month, price will be rational. 
 But after a period of time, the price will return to a reasonble level.

 For exemple, the Microsoft product Surface is sell 600 dollars after the conference.
For example, the initial price fo Surface, a product by Microsoft, was set around $600, which somewhat unaffordable to ordinary consumers.

3 month later, the price has down to a resonable 200 dollars,  
Three months later, the price was cut down to $300 which was a good price.